Now another tool that we have in our
toolbox is the @Primary annotation.
This is a technique you can use when you
have multiple beans of the same type and
you want one of them to go in by default
so in our case I think we have four
beans now all the same type that all
implement the same interface so if we're
going to be Autowiring by type in that
case any one of these beans technically
is available to be Autowired into the
class so the @Primary annotation
gives us a way to specify exactly which
one bean we want to be used when there
is more than one qualifying bean in the
Spring context so I'm going to go in and
what we'll do is we'll take that
original controller we start this little
project off with and we're going to
refactor it to add in an implementation
and this way by the end of the module
you'll be able to see how all these are
working together wired in different
beans so we're going to have all four
different instances of that GreetingService implemented into our controllers.
Okay in this example what we want to do
is wire in a primary GreetingService so
I'm going to come in and create one now
and this will definitely be added to Git
for you and implements GreetingService
now if you're using IntelliJ you can
come down and hit command N and we'll do
Implement Methods sayGreetings and what
I want to do is return a greeting Hello
and we'll say from the Primary Greeting service
and of course I need to implement him as
a Service and this is going to tell the
Spring context to bring that in as I
Spring Bean now let's make this a
little more interesting and we will,
let's refactor this controller here this
is the one that we started this whole
project with MyController and if you
remember I'm running this, this is a
guy that's saying "Hello!!! " here so he's
just doing a System.out.println("Hello!!! ")
so that's why we're getting that one
so let's refactor this to take in a
GreetingService. So that there's
property for the GreetingService, if I
do command n in IntelliJ and this is
on a Mac too and I'm going to say
Generate Constructor, say GreetingService
and now let's say I just don't
don't want to do anything here as far as
annotating this class further, if I come
in and run this now it's going to blow
up because MyController needs a single
bean but now there's 4 of them we've
got 4 different beans defined so now
if I come back over here and mark this
as @Primary I expect everything's
still going to run so now the only
differences that we've marked it on line
10 they're using the @Primary
annotation saying that if there is more
than one bean, I want to use this one so
let's go ahead and run that and we can
see that I got a Hello!!! there and
actually let's let's modify this here
and we're getting that Hello!!! but we also
actually get that output so what we want
to do, now that's what I failed to do. We
need a greetingService that returns
sayGreeting() and then let's come down to our
application and you can do a shortcut
sout I could do that and we are already
getting that bean so we can says
controller.hello(). It's a little bit
different than let's say hello from
other controllers. Now when we
run that we'll get that printed out to
the console. Now we have two Primary
Greeting services, so the property
injected controller is still getting the
Primary Greeting service so if I come here to
come back into this, I have to come back to
the PropertyInjectedController, I'm
sorry and this is just taking in the
primary bean now if I do a Qualifier on
this, so now we're going to say a
Qualifier("GreetingServiceImpl"), let's
run this one more time we should see all
the differences here. So yeah we got the
Primary, the Hello Gurus!!!! from the
original which is our GreetingService,
our GreetingServiceImpl and make that
a little clearer.
So now we can see how we got the
original there and we're getting the
different outputs. We got two hellos
there and I'm just going to clean that
up so we're calling the controller hello
method twice, I'm going to just get rid
of that. So we have the controller method
saying Hello!!!, that's a System out and then
we're taking the input from the
various services that we've created in
different implementations. Now you can
see how the Primary annotation is taking
where there's not one specified and then
we're using Qualifiers to pick up the
other ones by the class name. Now one
nuance I want to point out to you is how
that primary bean is working with the
reflection so if we look at the
PropertyInjectedController, you saw that I went
in and added in the Qualifier. Now if I
take that Qualifier out, let's watch what
happens as actually on the second line
where we're getting the original so I go
ahead and run this again now, now you can
see that the Primary is getting injected
because without that Qualifier even
though I have the bean name as the
property name the primary bean is
overriding that, so it's going to
override that and be what spring
does the dependency injection on. Now if
I put this back in and the Qualifier
there and and run it again we will get
the proper implementation because we
want the original injected end the same
that we're doing property based
injection. You can see how things are
kind of misbehaving there and like I
gave you the warning before to caution
you about wiring up by the property name
when you do something that overrides it
like a Primary obviously that could
cause you unintended consequences down
the road. So that is a shortcut you
can get away with but specifying the
Qualifier really is a best practice
because you are going to see what the
intent was and people behind you are
going to see what your intent was so
it's always important to express to your
fellow developers. Okay you can see how
the Primary annotation is a very handy
annotation. You do run into cases where you want to
have one bean marked as a primary over
another and what this gives you a chance
to do is you can rather than specifying
every class that is dependent upon that
bean, you can go in to that specific
bean and indicate that it is the
Primary and that's a very
convenient thing to do so remember the
whole don't repeat yourself principle
the Primary annotation allows you to do
that so it's a really nice feature with
in the Spring and it's another tool in
your tool belt as you are wiring it
because as you get into more and more
complex Enterprise projects, trust me as
your career and spring goes up you
will get into bigger projects you are
going to need tools like this to specify
which bean you want is the Primary one
and it's a very handy thing to have.